Error Handling in Microflows - create a new document (#5332)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/application-logic/microflows-and-nanoflows/microflows/error-hanling-in-microflows-new.md

### 2.1 Error Handling  - Default

In this example, the error handling in **Microflow 2** is the default: **Rollback**.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/application-logic/microflows-and-nanoflows/microflows/error-handling-in-microflows/default-roll-back.png" width="600px" >}}

When **Microflow 1** starts with a button click, a savepoint is created at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**,  the default error handling is to roll back all changes to the state of this savepoint (so all changes are reverted), the microflow is aborted, the error is logged, and a system error message is shown to the end-user.

### 2.2 Error Handling - Custom with Rollback

#### 2.2.1 Error Handling Which Ends with an Error Event

In this example, the error handling in **Microflow 2** is set to **Custom with rollback** and the error handling flow ends with an error event.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/application-logic/microflows-and-nanoflows/microflows/error-handling-in-microflows/with-roll-back-error-event.png" width="600px" >}}

> When **Microflow 1** starts with a button click, a savepoint is created at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**, everything rolls back to the state of this savepoint because the error handling is set to **Custom with rollback**. Hence, changes made in ****Create Order**** and in **Create Customer** are both reverted. The error is logged using a custom error message. After that, the error event throws an error to terminate **Microflow 2** and **Microflow 1**.

Author: ```suggestion
When **Microflow 1** starts with a button click, a savepoint is created at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**, everything rolls back to the state of this savepoint because the error handling is set to **Custom with rollback**. Hence, changes made in ****Create Order**** and in **Create Customer** are both reverted. The error is logged using a custom error message. After that, the error event throws an error to terminate **Microflow 2**, and **Microflow 1** will terminate because there is no custom error handing there.
```

### 2.3 Error Handling - Custom without Rollback

#### 2.3.1 Error Handling Which Ends with an Error Event

In this example, the error handling in **Microflow 2** is set to **Custom without rollback** and the error handling flow ends with an error event.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/application-logic/microflows-and-nanoflows/microflows/error-handling-in-microflows/without-roll-back-error-event.png" width="600px" >}}

When **Microflow 1** starts with a button click, a savepoint is created at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. Another savepoint is created right before ****GenerateError**** because the error handling is set to **Custom without rollback**. When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**, changes made in **Create Order** are at this moment still kept because of the savepoint right before **GenerateError**. The error is logged using a custom error message. After that, the error event throws an error to terminate **Microflow 2** and rolls back everything to the state of savepoint which is at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. Hence, changes made in **Create Customer** and in **Create Order** are both reverted.

{{% alert color="info" %}}

> Using custom error handling without rollback and ending the error handling flow with an error event here makes it possible to create a custom log message with details about the **NewOrder** (a normal log message does not contain such information). After logging this message, everything will still be rolled back.  

Author: ```suggestion
Using custom error handling without rollback and ending the error handling flow with an error event here makes it possible to create a custom log message with details about the **NewOrder** (if you used error handling with rollback, this information would not be available). However, after logging this message, everything will still be rolled back.  
```

You should be very careful with using the **Continue** option since it can make it very difficult to understand when something goes wrong. Where possible, try to use **Custom without rollback** instead and log the error message.
{{% /alert %}}

## 3 An Example of Combined Error Handling

In this example, the error handling on the **GenerateError** activity in **Microflow 2** and on the call of **Microflow 2** are both set to **Custom without rollback**. The error handling flow in **Microflow 2** ends with an error event. 

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/application-logic/microflows-and-nanoflows/microflows/error-handling-in-microflows/combination-without-roll-back-error-event.png" width="600px" >}}

There are three savepoints. When **Microflow 1** starts with a button click, a savepoint is created at the very beginning of **Microflow 1**. Another savepoint is created right before the call of **Microflow 2**, and the third savepoint is created right before **GenerateError** - this is because the error handling on the **GenerateError** activity in **Microflow 2** and on the call of **Microflow 2** are both set to **Custom without rollback**.

> When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**, changes made in **Create Order** are at this moment saved because of the savepoint right before **GenerateError**. The error is logged using a custom error message. After that, the error event throws an error to terminate **Microflow 2** and rolls back everything inside **Microflow 2** to the state of **savepoint 2**, (at this moment, what was saved in **Create Order** is now rolled back). The custom error handling on the call of **Microflow 2** causes the error handling flow to be followed and terminates **Microflow 1** with an end event. Changes made in **Create Customer** are hence kept.

Author: ```suggestion
When an error occurs in **Microflow 2**, changes made in **Create Order** are at this moment saved because of the savepoint right before **GenerateError**. The error is logged using a custom error message. After that, the error event throws an error to terminate **Microflow 2** and rolls back everything inside **Microflow 2** to the state of **savepoint 2**, (at this moment, what was saved in **Create Order** is now rolled back). The custom error handling in **Microflow 1** that applies to the call of **Microflow 2** causes the error handling flow in **Microflow 1** to be followed and terminates **Microflow 1** with an end event. Changes made in **Create Customer** are hence kept.
```

> ## 4 Inspecting Errors

Author: Paul Moes  [4 days ago](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Error-Handling-in-Microflows-the-latest-version--BspuiTqNxxKdn9kaI4iWtYGNAg-jPf6V0YsUzdlApQmzLhU9?t=908419779813674140346866#:t=908419779813674140346866)
​​maybe we can mention errors when calling a rest service? In that situation they need to inspect the latestHttpResponse variable [Call REST Service | Mendix Documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/call-rest-action/#latesthttpresponse) @MarkvanMents

{{% /alert %}}

The following table shows the attributes of **System.Error** and **System.SoapFault**.

| Entity | Attribute | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| System.Error | ErrorType | String | The Java exception type of the error that occurred. |
| System.Error | Message | String | The message of the Java exception. |
| System.Error | Stacktrace | String | The stacktrace of the Java exception. |
| System.SoapFault | Code | String | The code element of the SOAP fault. |
| System.SoapFault | Reason | String | The reason element of the SOAP fault. |
| System.SoapFault | Node | String | The node element of the SOAP fault. |
| System.SoapFault | Role | String | The role element of the SOAP fault. |
| System.SoapFault | Detail | String | The detail element of the SOAP fault. |

For more information, see [SOAP Fault](http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/#soapfault).

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
In microflows that apply entity access, it is not possible to inspect the attributes of error objects for security reasons. You can pass the error object to a sub-microflow that does not apply entity access and inspect the attributes there.
{{% /alert %}}

> ## 5 Best Practices

Author: Should we put this back in? These are the activities which are mostly likely to go wrong:
_Always add custom error handling on integration or email activities._
(Should we also add Java action here? (Robert Lindblom))
Paul Moes  [4 days ago](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Error-Handling-in-Microflows-the-latest-version--BspuiTqNxxKdn9kaI4iWtYGNAg-jPf6V0YsUzdlApQmzLhU9?t=076418794601300550707256#:t=076418794601300550707256)
​​I actually find that this recommendation leads to a lot of bad implementation of error handling. Default error handling is better than a bad implementation of custom error handling. I’ve seen too many developers forgetting to apply rollback or logging the error message
